I tell people I might be the smartest guy in the world.
And I figured out how to drink beer and play with cars.
Pay for it.
Yeah.
But it's like,
it's a fun show.
It's like you,
you're not taking yourself too seriously.
You having a good time.
You know,
you're buying and sell an awesome cars.
Oh yeah.
For sure.
It's a,
it,
it was a dream of mine to get it done.
It took eight years to get it sold,
but here we are now did it really started to,
I started pitching the show in 2004.
We didn't start till a 2008 or 2012.
What were you doing before that?
Uh,
before television or before gas monkey.
Yeah.
I kind of had two stages in life.
I was a firefighter,
police officer and medic before I was old enough to drink.
I mean,
I'm talking 19 years old,
carrying a gun.
I'd probably want the smartest thing for them to let me do.
And then,
um,
I'll let you ever grown when you were at 19.
I had a badge.
I was a cop.
I mean,
literally I was a police officer and uh,
so by the time I was 20,
I just also a firefighter.
And,
uh,
so I did that for awhile and then moved into printing and advertising and then
sold that and got into this.
So was it just like something you just always into cars and that's what led you
to the show?
You know,
how would I tell the story diplomatically?
Um,
realistically I was watching the shows that were on TV at the time.
I'm always been a car nut and a motorcycle guy and what have you.
And I realized one night that my kids are never in the room watching it and my
wife's not in the room watching it,
you know,
and uh,
the shows that we're on,
we're a little bit too much bravado and,
and I'm a tough guy and you know,
so I dug it and all my buddies dug it,
but the wives and stuff,
and I was like,
golly,
they're missing a big chunk of the market here.
If you could tone down that part of it a little bit and still have a cool brand
and still be a cool guy,
you know,
and get the moms and the kids in the room.
Hopefully it's a lot more successful.
And so that's,
that was kind of where the idea came from and I just went out and started it.
That's interesting.
So the marketing side,
have you kicked in?
So the marketing side of you went,
ah,
I think there's another way to do this.
Yeah,
I mean I'm still a tattooed guy,
was some jewelry,
but you know,
I got a pit bull in poodle on a leash,
not a pit bull on a chain.
Well the show,
it doesn't seem compromised.
That's what's interesting about it cause it seems like a kind of a guy's show.
I never thought about that.
Why?
Well the way I approached it was just like when I was a kid and my dad had a
garage,
a not a,
you know,
not open for public garage buddy.
I plays that.
We kept his car and the neighbors would come over and they tinker and they drink
beer.
And that's what car guys do.
So we kind of took that approach of that's what gas monkey does.
We just drink some beers and play some cars and goof around.
It's just like Saturday afternoon,
but all week long.
Did you have any of a background in,
in automobile knowledge?
Did you know like how to fix things or did you yeah,
I've never really been the full fabricator.
Uh,
you know,
I understand everything and how it works,
but I'm probably more of a business guy.
Uh,
so I was able to go out and hire good guys to,
to do the fabricating stuff and we've got a great team.
But I did have the car knowledge and I,
and I had,
I had the eyeball for what was good and keeping up with what was going to be
happening and things like that.
And that's kind of my strong suit is saying,
okay,
okay.
Porsches are predicted to be popular,
so we're gonna get into three 56 is,
or Broncos,
like the one he drove it is,
you know,
or what have you.
And I keep my eye on the market.
That's interesting.
So you,
but you still do keep your eye on the market.
I saw that 68 that you have outside of the 68 Chevelle.
Yeah.
68 [inaudible] 68 convertible.
God Damn,
that's a nice car.
It's a good,
it's probably the best one I've ever seen.
I mean,
from an original standpoint.
Yeah.
It's meant,
I mean it's got little scuffs up.
It's,
it's driven,
you know,
but it's,
it's in perfect condition.
It doesn't have any dents or anything wrong with it is literally a little old
lady from Pasadena.
I mean the lady bought it brand new and she passed away a couple of years ago
and I bought it from her grandson.
Wow.
What a cliche.
52,000 original miles and uh,
never been wrecked.
Never Old lady from Pasadena is a cliche.
I know,
right?
He was technically Pomona,
but you know,
same shit.
Wow.
Yeah.
That car,
those uh,
I mean I've said this on the show a million times.
I'm a giant fan of like the,
the time period of 1965 to somewhere around like 71 they fell apart.
Yeah,
I know.
Like you still get a 71 challenger,
a 71 barracuda is still pretty sweet for sure.
But then you get into like 72 73 they had to start putting,
the big bumpers are there with the shots.
Everything just fell apart.
Then he got the gas crunch and then everything got four cylinders and it was,
it was a bad time in the late seventies for sure.
It was a bad time,
but it's a good time now.
It's a really interesting,
really interesting time now for muscle cars.
It's,
the race is so crazy that they're putting out street legal cars.
You could buy from a dealer with 700 plus horsepower and almost every dealer has
one now.
Oh yeah,
for sure.
I mean,
I've got a demon myself.
That's crazy.
Eight horsepower.
That's fucking crazy.
And now the new gt 500 does out.
That's going to have over 700 horsepower.
You know,
you have the,
the Camero l a um,
what is it?
One Ellie?
It's the no one.
Was it [inaudible]?
No.
What does it,
what the fuck is the name of the,
like the [inaudible] one zero one one Ellie,
which is 650 horsepower and then the new um,
Zr one that's 750 horsepower.
They just preposterous.
Oh,
it's,
it's uh,
I think it could be a little dangerous.
You know what everybody out there thinking,
Hey,
I can drive a 700 horsepower car because it's completely different than you
know,
a normal one.
Well,
did you see the video of the guy from,
uh,
one of the head guys at GM who took it on track?
Like one of the first days they were released in the car and he spun out on the
first turn and slammed into the wall.
Well,
I can't say much.
I wrecked a brand new hell cat the other day racing at Woodward.
Did you really?
Oh No.
I went to Woodward Dream cruise and they had a little celebrity match up and I
was racing and just lost it and hit the wall.
Took out the whole side of the car.
Were you on a track or where you on a strip?
It was a street track,
uh,
that they had right there on Woodward Avenue.
So they put up the blocks and you take off.
Yikes.
Yeah.
Those,
uh,
those hell cats are beautiful,
but they're not,
they're not that great at corner and that's,
it's still a giant car.
Big Car.
Yeah.
Mustang and the Camaro going to do better in the corners for sure.
The,
the hell can have so much front.
There's so much out in front.
I mean,
it really does remind you more than any of those other cars though,
of those 1970 cars,
you know,
really has that,
that shape is more,
I kinda like,
if you look at a 1969 Camaro and then you look at a 2019 Camaro,
you're like,
ah,
I don't see it.
That's not the same thing.
But the challenger really does look like that old car.
Well,
Kim,
uh,
Tim can ask is killed it.
I mean,
that was his whole passion project to the whole time he was running dodge and he
just absolutely nailed it.
Yeah,
no,
they did.
They made a great looking,
modern muscle car.
The other ones are just great looking cars.
I mean,
they are still muscle cars,
but they don't really think,
you don't really think about the old days when you see him.
Now they've tried but they didn't get it as good as dodge.
Now you guys make some fucking great builts too.
You know,
you guys have done some really sweet custom builds.
Like you were telling me outside that the longest you do a build for is 25 days.
Uh,
we've got it down to about 25 from 32 ish when we started.
so when you see a car on the show,
um,
if it's a single episode that we built that car in 25,
26 days,
that's crazy.
Start to finish paint interior everything.
How do you do it so quick?
A lot of planning and we've learned over seven years now and 130 of them that,
um,
you know,
we've just got our process in and the crew that I have at the shop now is
unbelievably phenomenal and there's only six guys doing it.
There's six guys that do it.
25 days we're done.
That's insane.
But what about like if you're going to do are custom suspension or you know,
art Morrison chassy or something like that.
It just takes some planning.
So literally what we do is we build the car three times.
This is what I tell everybody will say,
okay,
we're going to build this 68 Chevelle.
Uh,
and so we decided how we're going to build it and what kind of parts we're going
to use,
what kind of suspension wheels,
motor.
We,
we put all that down on paper and then if it works mathematically for the
project we want to do,
then um,
I go find the car.
Then when I find the car,
we order every single part and we don't start that car until every single thing
that was on that list is in house has been checked and we're ready to go.
So now we've got his actual fabrication time and human error and we're ready to
go.
Still.
Seems like such a short amount of time and all the builds that I've seen take
seven months,
nine months,
a year.
It's just the shops are set up differently.
It may be one or two guys,
or maybe they've got kind of,
you know,
assembly programs going on or what have you.
But we get in there like,
you'll love the way that we're building right now.
Uh,
we're building a 77 international scout and,
uh,
started with a really nice one.
Orange,
white stripes,
plaid interior.
I mean,
the whole ball of wax whack the chassis out from under it put in a full Chris
Austin Chassis works chassis with,
uh,
only two wheel drive.
And it's all 2018 Hellcat,
eight speed automatic Jesus in it and slammed on the ground,
but it's still removable top.
And it was a great California truck,
I would guarantee you that.
Oh,
wow.
So you made it so you lowered it.
Yeah,
we're calling it the health gap.
Ah,
wow.
That's pretty bad ass.
It's going to be wicked Gar.
Yeah.
Those,
uh,
hello.
Chassies um,
uh,
Jonathan Ward,
the same guy who's doing this is a who do,
who did my bronco,
the icon.
They're doing that with uh,
one of the,
I think it's a super bird and one of the,
one of those iconic mopars Yup.
From the late sixties,
early seventies.
They're doing a full Hellcat chassis and the whole deal with that.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Um,
what,
what company was the first one to really get stupid with these cars?
I guess it was kind of corvette with the Zr one with horsepower.
Fig.
Yeah,
for sure.
Corvette.
God stepped out there with the Zr one and started cranking it up.
Uh,
everybody was kind of in production.
You had,
you had the resurgence of Shelby.
Yeah,
there it is.
There's John [inaudible] wards.
Oh Wow.
Look at that thing.
That's good looking.
That is like literally like trying to have a block,
like a city block on wheels.
They take around a corner.
Look how long that damn thing is.
Yeah.
That's going to be a fresh card for sure.
Bad Ass.
He does some awesome shit over there too.
He's a,
he's doing some while he's doing one that I don't think he can talk about and I
think he's,
he's keeping it under wraps,
but he's got a bunch of cool shit.
Yeah,
for sure.
Easier been there.
I have not been on the street.
I now go visit afterwards.
We might,
I don't think I'm going to make my flight.
When's your flight?
I don't know.
I've got a couple of them aren't hold notice I said say,
Hey,
I've got a couple of on hold because I don't think I make enough money for a
plane yet.
Got To talk to disco.
And that was like a private planes that we were saying.
Yeah,
I don't,
I mean we're all scrambling for something.
Yeah.
That's the ultimate scramble.
The private jet money.
But that,
that is just so much fucking money.
That's,
that seems to be is a little ridiculous.
Yeah.
But I'd like to have a tricked out one gas McGee on it and lit big old monkey on
the tail gasoline with a CAG in it somewhere.
Oh yeah,
for sure.
Now when you do these shows and you bargain people down and then they watched
the show to people ever get pissed.
I've had a few,
um,
and uh,
in the first,
uh,
first few years,
they were just excited,
you know,
that we were going to be doing something with the car and,
and is it always an element of a,
of a cinnamon to it,
you know,
it was their dads or their moms or grandmas or whatever and they want to see it
go to a good home.
So you got several different kinds of people.
They are wanting you to not do anything or if you're going to fix it up,
we want to see it,
you know,
all kinds of things like that.
But nowadays it's a little more harder for me to get a decent deal because,
cause we didn't know the success of the show and I show up and they're like,
oh,
you're that guy on TV.
No,
I didn't say 10,000 and I said 13,
you know.
Ah,
yeah,
yeah.
Well,
I would imagine when people see what you sell them for after you fix him up,
then they get a little upset.
Yeah,
they can.
But I mean they don't understand the amount of work and time and money that
we've put into it.
Most of the cars that we're building on the show now,
we're putting it a least a hundred grand in and sometimes as much as 300.
Really,
you know,
I mean we're building everything we're building now.
This is when the new season comes out in June.
Uh,
people going to be amazed cause you know,
we're building this kind of stuff.
Wow.
And,
uh,
it's wicked cool.
And you're doing that in 25 days.
Yeah.
Fuck man.
Just put together a good plan and execute it well.
Must be like a thing now because the show that people want to get a gas monkey
bill car.
They do.
But,
um,
how would I say this diplomatically?
If it weren't for employees,
vendors and customers,
business would be great.
So we,
we,
uh,
we don't do a lot for the,
the customer,
uh,
until we've built it for ourselves.
And then we sell it to them.
But as far as coming in off the street,
we just like building what we want to build,
hone in our skills and then we find a buyer.
Every once in awhile I'll have god come in and go,
look,
I can,
this is what I want,
but I can,
I won't call you.
I won't come in there with a new steering wheel.
All you know it's like it gets,
that's why a lot of times cars do take seven months or a year or cause the guy
that's having its built is in there every other weekend going out.
I don't know,
maybe we move this over here and painted purple.
Oh yeah,
I get it.
Yeah,
no,
it does seem like it would be way better.
Just build it how you like it and then sell it.
Well,
yeah,
I mean it's still a business decision.
I'm trying to build it to where I think it's going to do the most,
you know,
the most money at the end of the day and stay true with a,
what's going on as far as that particular car and what's going on in the
marketplace and technology and what have you.
Um,
and we do get a lot of calls where people come in and go,
okay,
I want that exact same thing,
you know,
and so we'll build another one.
Well,
sometimes you,
you do buy cars and then just sell them without doing anything to it,
right?
Yeah.
That's what we call our bs stories.
You know,
we'll buy something and bring it in,
maybe just put some wheels on it or whatever.
But usually it's just clean it up,
get it running and sell somebody else the dream,
because not everybody can afford a fully built car and,
or they want to do it themselves.
So we get them a good project.
I don't think people realize how much money is involved in a fully built car.
Ticketless yeah.